# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Naming Track - 2024-01-25

## Folks

| Name             | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| Nicolò Ribaudo   |             |     |             |
| Jon Kuperman     |             |     |             |
| Holger Benl      |             |     |             |
| Simon Zünd       |             |     |             |
| Boma Manilla     |             |     |             |
| Daniel Ehrenberg |             |     |             |
| Chris de Almeida |             |     |             |
| Artem Kobzar     |             |     |             |
| Justin Ridgewell |             |     |             |
| Ron Buckton      |             |     |             |

## Agenda

- Holger added another example on the implementation side for the scopes proposal
- Some proposal issues/PRs incoming. We don’t currently have a mechanism to say “this range in the generated source corresponds to this range in original source” especially if inlined
- Possible solution is to add a new scope kind. Something like reference which says “This is not a scope in the generated code it just references the original scope”
- Simon: The current proposal has the bindings but
- Holger: an ongoing implementation is very helpful with finding problems in the proposal
- Jon: Will reach out to Luca for the debugId proposal
- Nicolò: One blocker is that we need to expose those IDs through an API in some other spec
- Jon: we should start having those conversations
- Dan: what's the status for the scopes proposal stage?
- Holger: We are figuring out the details
- Dan: do we have a list of what are the open details?
- Holger:
  1. How to mark a scope as generated (maybe scope kind: reference)
  2. Value ranges: when a variable has different values at different locations in a scope and the compiler is clever enough to inline it
     - Dan: do we know what the encoding could be?
     - Holger: I have a description of my idea -- I will implement it and open a PR
     - Jon: Simon liked that idea too
- Dan: is there anything about the encoding that is still ambiguous here?
- Holger: it puts values in a different place than where I would propose
- Dan: how are we with implementations of these various proposals
- Artem: we have a draft for the implementation in kotlin, it's just missing some details
- Dan: scopes? Or range mappings?
- Artem: both if needed if it's helpful
- Simon: I have a prototype, I'll add it in early february to Chrome devtools behind an experimental flag (probably the same one currently used for pasta source maps)
- Artem: as far as I understand, the description of the proposal is currently different from yours and Holger's version, right?
- Simon: I'll try to match whatever is the latest version in the rfc repo
- Dan: the other thing we need to get to stage 3 is to write tests. Is anybody interested in helping?
- Jon: Asumu has been looking and documenting the different browser API
- Artem: I can add tests for generators, to validate the generated encoding
- Boma: I'm working on getting some bandwidth to help with implementation and testing. I'll reach out offline.
- Dan: off topic, but what about going through the correctness issues?
- Dan: open question in Nicolò's PR to use fetch about newlines

## Next agenda:

- ~~Jaroslav will present something on the work he’s been doing in Chrome (Jaroslav is leaving Google/DevTools)~~
- Artem and Holger and others will work on refining the naming RFCs
-
