# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Main Track - 2024-01-10

## Folks

| Name              | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ----------------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| Jonathan Kuperman |             |     | Bloomberg   |
| Tobias Koppers    |             |     | Vercel      |
| Nicolò Ribaudo    |             |     | Igalia      |
| Asumu Takikawa    |             |     | Igalia      |
| Artem Kobzar      |             |     | JetBrains   |
| Holger Benl       |             |     | Replay      |
| Agata Belkius     |             |     | Bloomberg   |
| Simon Zünd        |             |     | Google      |
| Ron Buckton       |             |     | Microsoft   |
| Hubert B Manilla  |             |     | Mozilla     |
| Daniel Ehrenberg  |             |     | Bloomberg   |

## Agenda:

- New members and introductions!
- Onboarding
  - Jon prepared a new onboarding document for newcomers (TODO: Add link)
- Merging of the repos
  - Jon: having two repos is currently confusing from people not deeply involved, and we always have to remember where each document is
- Testing
  - Jon: this is going to be a big priority, with multiple people working on it.
  - Artem: Updated your validator to be based on source text rather than AST nodes. Also, is it true or not that line numbers should be 0-based?
    - Holger: the spec doesn't say anything, as currently there are no line numbers. There is just "count how many lines".
    - Artem: I mean for mapping to the source. It seems like column numbers start from 0 but line numbers start from 1.
    - Jon: The spec says 0-based for the columns, but we should look more in depth into this.
    - Holger: most JS debuggers also do this way.
    - Jon: let's open an issue in -rfc to not forget about this.
    - Nicolò: Babel (and most other tools) do as already explained: 0-based for columns and 1-based for lines
    - Artem: let's make sure that this is reflected in the spec
- Goals for 2024
  - Jon: We had a target of presenting in September everything we've been doing. Spec is going great.
- Scopes proposal
  - Jon: since most people involved in scopes are here -- are there any blockers?
  - Holder: there is PR #62 that I think we should merge now, and then follow up with other PRs. It's a proposal by Simon to modify the existing proposal, I updated my implementation to be similar to it and I prefer it over the old version. For discussion, it's simpler to merge the PR and then follow-up.
- Range mappings proposal
  - Jon: also merging this, so we can keep iterating
- [process discussion about merging PRs]
  - Simon: who has merge access? We should figure out.
  - Dan: Let's be liberal with this. I'll give a bunch of people maintainer access, and ping me if needed.
  - Dan: it looks like y'all already have access.
  - Artem: I was talking about the -spec repo
  - Nic: editors are responsible for merging there, maybe we should expand who has write access there?
  - Dan: who are the editors
  - Nic: I don't remember
  - Dan: It looks like currently a random group of people has write access. Let's all give write access to this too. You shouldn't merge anything without proper reviews.
- [...]
  - Artem: last time Simon mentioned a possibility of a canary version of Chrome with the scopes proposal under a flag. When could I play around with it? I'd like to use it to test in Kotlin compiler.
  - Simon: I was on holiday, I'll ship something in February.
- TC39-TG1 communications
  - Nicolò: Next TC39 meeting is in 3 weeks. Anything update to present there?
  - Jon: I'll do a year-in-review
- Reviewing correctness issues
  - Define which points in JS should have a source map mapping
    - Nic: Tobias' proposal goes in a similar direction, do we still need to give an answer to this issue?
    - Dan: They are complementary but do not replace each other
    - Dan: Lines and tokens?
    - Nic: I think Babel does something in between (identifiers and some AST nodes)
  - Document the meaning of the "names" array
    - Dan: do we still want to do this even if we are working on scopes? At least document it?
    - Agata: if we document it let's explicitly say that this is not part of the "official" standard
    - Dan: often web standards do describe things that are discouraged, because they are not going away
    - Simon: I would like to write that at least some strings must be there (e.g. function names and variable names), with a note that some tools add more things
    - Jon: can I already add a PR saying that it's deprecated?
    - Dan: yes
    - Nic: until scopes is a complete feature, there is no alternative to names. Even if it's deprecated, people will still have to use it
    - Simon: should we wait to deprecate it until when scopes is done then?
    - Dan: ok, let's just start with describing what it already does
  - Future of X- Prefixes #25
    - Conclusion: do not mention x\_ prefixes, but specify that unrecognized fields should not cause the source map consumer to fail
