# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Main Track - 2023-11-08

## Folks

| Name   | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ------ | ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| Simon  |             |     |             |
| Nicolo |             |     |             |
| Justin |             |     |             |
| Holger |             |     |             |
| Zalim  |             |     |             |
| Tobias |             |     |             |
| Boma   |             |     |             |

## Agenda:

- Process for standardizing proposals
- Started [https://szuend.github.io/scope-proposal-examples/](https://szuend.github.io/scope-proposal-examples/) with some of Holgers examples

## Notes:

- Process document (Nicolo presents):
  - Zailm: We should explicitly write that they are entry requirements
  - No objections to adopting the process document
  - Dan: is it ok for us to just present to TC39-TG1 once our proposals reach stage 4?
    - (support)
- Scopes proposal (Simon presents):
  - Simon: Is this the right call for updates?
  - Nic: we can give an update to the group given that not everybody might follow the naming track
  - Simon: the link takes dome of Holger's examples and shows how scopes would look like
  - Holger: are examples from my repository or from the issues in the tc39 repo?
  - Simon: it's based on the three presented cases
  - Dan: is the scopes proposal clear enough?
  - Simon: I have a list of questions I had, currently not public
    - Whether ranges are inclusive or exclusive
    - should we specify where a function scope starts? (at (, or {) or give freedom?
      - Holger: better to be clear and reduce implementation variance
    - Encoding details of relative indixes
    - I'll open an issue
  - Nicolo: would this proposal already be in Stage 2?
  - Holger, Dan: yes
- (going through issues)
  - Dan: "Define which points in JS should have a source map mapping"
    - Nicolo: this came up recently for Babel
    - Holgers: I expect to have thoughts once I implement scopes
    - Bradford: the choices are to map either statements, expressions, or variables
    - Nicolo: what does "mapping a â€¦ mean"? I.e. mapping ranges vs individual locations
    - Holgers: we should check "breakable points" in debuggers
    - Tobias: we may need a flag that marks range mappings rather than just location mappings
    - Holger: but that would mean changing the current "mappings" format, it risks breaking backwards compat. It should be a separate proposal.
  - Fetch/compression:
    - Ok for using fetch to fetch rather than defining compression
- Testing updates?
  - Nicolo: let's create a repo with very low entry barrier where people can push some unpolished tests
  - Boma: ideas on tests for consumers
- Supported comments formats
  - Simon implemented use counters, but usage is too high to just remove it. Maybe we can start an intent to deprecate
  - Simon: maybe we can already remove it from the spec
  - Dan: we should keep alignment between specs-text. Also, maybe just keep it?
  - Tobias: didn't we discuss it in Munich, saying that only consumers should consume it but it should not be generated?
