# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Main Track - 2023-09-09

## Folks

| Name              | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ----------------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| Árpád Borsos      |             |     |             |
| Nicolò Ribaudo    |             |     |             |
| Bradford Smith    |             |     |             |
| Jan Martin        |             |     |             |
| Jake Archibald    |             |     |             |
| Armin Ronacher    |             |     |             |
| Artem Kobzar      |             |     |             |
| Jaroslav Sevcik   |             |     |             |
| Holger Hoffstätte |             |     |             |
| Luca Forstner     |             |     |             |
| Zalim Bashorov    |             |     |             |
| Jonathan Kuperman |             |     |             |

## Agenda

- F2F September 22 in Munich
- Status of tests
- Status of validator
- Issue review [https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues](https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues)

Notes:

- Worker conf in Austria canceled. Benedikt Meurer and Dan Ehrenberg thinking about heading to Munich on September 22nd. Holger said he’s in Munich already! Artem said he’d like to come and maybe other JetBrains people can come as well.
- Tests is in a state of lots of interested people and good ideas but we haven’t had a lot opportunities to explore. We mentioned the Jetbrains Kotlin tests as a great starting point and also that we should make a separate Matrix room for testing talk.
- The validator exploration has gone ok. Jon Kuperman will write up his findings, post them to the test repo and share them in Matrix
- Should we also have some shared tests beyond e2e tests for post hoc debuggers. For example, Jest and Mozilla have popular source map libraries that a lot of people use. It would be great if we could have some tests there as well.
- Can we take some time to read through [https://github.com/terser/terser/pull/1106#issue-1040526896](https://github.com/terser/terser/pull/1106#issue-1040526896) as it applies to [https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues/32](https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues/32) and then come back to our issue to see if there are action items we should take? Sounds like we need to define that

Notes:

- Going through the [Workstream: Correctness] issues
  - Column definition ready for a PR ([https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/5](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/5))
    - For Wasm, generated binary offsets are bytes from start of the file.
    - For Wasm, the original sources are using the same UCS2 rules apply that also apply to other text formats (JS/CSS).
  - Sections URL already has a PR
  - People seem in favor of keeping the X- Prefixes, Jaroslav will put up PR with more of a description
  - Compression:
    - Should this section exist at all? Conclusion: this should be removed.
    - Should the source maps spec refer to the fetch spec?
  - Version field:
    - The spec should say it must be 3 and the text should say it’s the source map specification/format version instead of file
  - JSON over HTTP
    - Remove the XSSI mention and just say you’re allowed to include the “)]}” string at the beginning for requests over HTTP
    - Maybe we could move this text into a section on fetching source maps
  - Testing
    - Repo is made [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-tests](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-tests)
  - Headers
    - Kamil made a great tool to test headers, he’ll PR the spec with his findings
  - Names array
    - Are we wanting to “declare names bankruptcy” or improve the definition of the names array?
