# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Main Track - 2023-06-14

## Folks

| Name                          | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ----------------------------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| abotella@igalia.com           |             |     |             |
| aprasad@sentry.io             |             |     |             |
| armin@ronacher.eu             |             |     |             |
| arpad.borsos@sentry.io        |             |     |             |
| Artem Kobzar                  |             |     |             |
| b4bomsy@gmail.com             |             |     |             |
| Benedikt Meurer               |             |     |             |
| Bradford Smith                |             |     |             |
| Caridy Patiño                 |             |     |             |
| connor@peet.io                |             |     |             |
| Daniel Rosenwasser            |             |     |             |
| devongovett@gmail.com         |             |     |             |
| dminor@mozilla.com            |             |     |             |
| Guy Bedford                   |             |     |             |
| hi@devinrousso.com            |             |     |             |
| holger@replay.io              |             |     |             |
| Jan Martin                    |             |     |             |
| Jaroslav Sevcik               |             |     |             |
| jason@replay.io               |             |     |             |
| jkuperman2@bloomberg.net      |             |     |             |
| justin.ridgewell@vercel.com   |             |     |             |
| kamil.ogorek@gmail.com        |             |     |             |
| lilit.darbinyan@gmail.com     |             |     |             |
| luca.forstner@sentry.io       |             |     |             |
| mmolisani@bloomberg.net       |             |     |             |
| motiz88@gmail.com             |             |     |             |
| Michael Saboff                |             |     |             |
| Nicolò Ribaudo                |             |     |             |
| Paul Irish                    |             |     |             |
| Ron Buckton                   |             |     |             |
| rob.paveza@microsoft.com      |             |     |             |
| Romulo Cintra                 |             |     |             |
| Robert Palmer                 |             |     |             |
| Steve Hicks                   |             |     |             |
| SoftwareChris@us.ibm.com      |             |     |             |
| Shu-yu Guo                    |             |     |             |
| tobias.koppers@googlemail.com |             |     |             |
| Zbigniew Braniecki (Gandalf)  |             |     |             |

## Agenda

- Meta (timeboxed to 15 minutes max)
  _ Welcome
  _ Note TC39 results: Committee broadly supportive; hope to fully formalize in July
  _ Ecma invites organizations interested in the source map effort to join as invited experts through the end of 2023
  _ Review proposed TC39-TG4 scope: [https://gist.github.com/littledan/5f3736a50a40c610d6e864f33a75dcad](https://gist.github.com/littledan/5f3736a50a40c610d6e864f33a75dcad) \
  In particular: Error.stack is left for the main TC39 (proposal: [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-stacks](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-stacks))
  _ Very briefly: Roles
  _ Does anyone want to be co-convenor with littledan?
  _ Anyone interested in being editor? (Armen volunteered offline; best to share the load among multiple people)
  _ Call for more participation – what stakeholders should we reach out to?
  _ Do people agree with exit criteria? [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/35](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/35)
  _ Documenting "web-reality" - what does that mean?
  _ Something close to the consensus of current implementations of consumers and producers
  _ Rob Paveza is going to get permission to release some conformance tests for the previous SourceMap v4 effort
  _ Chromium DevTools has a lot of code dedicated to "sections" nested maps despite it not being a major part of the spec/community. How do we decide if this should be included?
  _ Dan: We'll work through it case by case
  _ Do these exit criteria resonate?
  _ &lt;One thumbs up, no dissent>
  _ Licensing
  _ Dan: Assume we go liberal and use MIT
  _ John Lenz may be the current copyright owner
  _ John worked at Google when the work was done
  _ Nick worked at Mozilla at the time
  _ We would love John Lenz to come to this call!
  _ And are prepared to reschedule the call to permit this.
  _ Please let littledan know offline if you have any feedback about how the meeting is run (frequency, style, agenda, etc.)
  _ Any announcements?
  _ Luca: Sentry is experimenting with DebugIDs. A polyfill exists - it is async but a browser native would be sync. Please contact Luca (luca.forstner@sentry.io) if you'd like to know more.
  _ Dan: And please raise this in the group so everyone can coordinate early on this.
  _ Luca: Some links on current implementation experiments:
  _ https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues/50053
  _ [https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/pull/50920](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/pull/50920)
  _ Kamil: Created a Source Maps Playground
  _ Kamil's source maps playground [https://github.com/kamilogorek/sourcemaps-playground](https://github.com/kamilogorek/sourcemaps-playground)
- Establishing implementation reality of source maps
  - Idea of method: [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/36](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/36)
  - Who wants to collaborate on testing between this meeting and next? [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15)
    - Volunteers: Jon Kuperman, Rob Paveza, Artem Kobzar, Hubert, Dan E
  - ## List of source map implementations? [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/47](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/47)
- Go through correctness backlog [ideally most of the meeting time] \
  [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Workstream%3A+Correctness%22+sort%3Acreated-asc](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Workstream%3A+Correctness%22+sort%3Acreated-asc)
  _ [Hardening: Precedence of the SourceMap HTTP header over the sourceMappingURL comment](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/27)
  _ Jaro, Luca: Header should override
  _ Rob: Headers are rare
  _ Jaro, Luca: But they are nice for dynamic overrides
  _ Kamil: I will take on writing a PR and test for this
  _ [Hardening: Remove or at least warn about sections.url](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/29)
  _ RobPaveza: This doesn't seem worth the implementation cost.
  _ This is about indexed sourcemaps with a URL field
  _ Indexed sourcemaps are used, but the URL version is questioned.
  _ Connor: Took two years to get feature request for indexed sourcemaps. Later URLs were implemented but we suspect no one uses it.
  _ Chromium does NOT support URLs.
  _ ACTION RobPaveza: Follow up with Chrome DevTools Jaroslav to find out what all that code is doing.
  _ Conclusion: It looks like probably we can remove this.
  _ Jaroslav agrees to take on this action.
  _ [Hardening: Compression](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/30)
  _ Does Brotli compression already work?
  _ This is for data URLs?
  _ Spec suggests this is not supported, but no one believes this is what’s actually implemented
  _ RobPaveza will take this action to test implementations and update the specification
  _ [JSON over HTTP Transport](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/34)
  _ Does anyone use this prefix?
  _ RobPaveza: I've seen this used a lot
  _ JustinR: Amp implemented this for generic JSON because it was common
  _ Jaroslav: Chromium supports it and we have seen it used.
  _ [Align with TypeScript declaration maps feature?](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/43)
  _ Ron: We use declaration maps when using project references in a multi-project workspace. Rather than type-checking the source code, we can only look at the cheaper DTS output and then link it back to the source code using the source map. TypeScript does not use the "names" field. We'll need to make sure declaration maps work - it's an important performance capability to save on editor time, so we'll keep maintaining it.
  _ Are there objections to considering declaration maps a first-class user that can't be broken?
  _ RobPaveza if we don't break sourcemaps, we won't break declaration maps. \* This usage seems equivalent to any use of sourcemaps. So keeping declaration maps in scope makes sense.
- Rob: Can we work more on the names workstream?
  - We’ll set up another call, monthly, offset by two weeks, to discuss this
- [https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/25](https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/25)
  - Jaro to file issue on the ignoreList property, maybe leading to a spec PR
  - People are generally in agreement to discourage vendor prefixes
  - Ignoring keys that don't have a known prefix creates a forward compat risk (e.g. standardize fields that have been used in the ecosystem)
  - RobPaveza: We need to be backwards compatible with existing x\_ prefixes
    - In v4 we should REJECT non-prefixed keys
      - DevTools should NOT reject
      - Conformance tests should be stricter and SHOULD reject
    - But would this make the spec impossible to evolve?
  - If you own producer and consumer, using x\_ is fine. But for external tools they need to ignore because produce and consumer are not normally owned by the same entity.

Notes

- Summary of TC39 meeting
  - Not yet chartered, planned for next meeting. Needs scope definition.
    - Proposed scope shared from gist
    - err.stack not in scope since it's already included in TC39 - any thoughts/objections?
      - Luca: Sentry is interested in runtime APIs
        - Proposed debug ids to identify errors which requires runtime support to work
      - Rob Paveza: For runtime concerns, should likely act in an advisory function. Debug ids are connected to source map acquisition while TG would be more about the contents.
      - Daniel: Important callout that liasing with other standards bodies is in scope.
  - Roles
    - Any editor volunteers? (none right now) Please reach out offline if you're interested.
  - Additional stakeholders
- Exit criteria for publishing/promoting a new spec revision/version
  - Daniel: Harden spec + tests + web reality
    - Jan: What's the exact definition of web reality here?
    - Daniel: Rough consensus between browser vendors and source map producers on the spec
    - Rob: Wrote conformance tester for initial SM v4 work, need to look into publishing code. Main reason for not releasing it: Not responsible for any SM producer (some connection to TSC). Chromium DevTools has a lot of code that's dedicated to source maps that can be composed. Not sure that's in the spec?
      - Daniel: Index source maps are in the spec. Have discussion about which pieces should still be included in the spec.
